README.md, before:

MongoDB Cloud Foundry Service Broker Example
=======================

Suggested setup for local development:

* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker)
* [PCFDev](https://network.pivotal.io/products/pcfdev)

For a more permanent deployment, consider deploying mongodb on traditional VMs.

TODO: Example mongodb deployment provisioned using a Vagrantfile

## Deploy MongoDB in a Docker Container
`docker pull mongo`

Start the Docker container:
`docker run --name mongodb -p 27017:27017 -d mongo --auth --authenticationDatabase admin -u mongo -p mongo`

Add the Initial Admin User:
```
$ docker exec -it mongodb mongo admin
> db.createUser({ user: 'admin', pwd: 'password', roles: [{"role" : "readWriteAnyDatabase","db" : "admin"},{"role" : "userAdminAnyDatabase","db" : "admin"}] });
```


## Deploy MongoDB using Vagrant

TODO - fork this repo: https://github.com/bobthecow/vagrant-mongobox
determine whether the above repo is a good enough starting point, or whether
it's simply better to use Puppet to provision the Vagrant machine with Mongo

## Build the MongoDB Example Service Broker
`git clone https://github.com/dave-malone/cloudfoundry-service-broker`

`cd cloudfoundry-service-broker`

The example service broker has been configured for use with PCFDev. This assumes that your MongoDB instance is routable at `host.pcfdev.io:27017`. Make the necessary changes in `src/main/resources/application.yml` to configure your service broker to use MongoDB deployed elsewhere.

`./gradlew assemble`

The ready to deploy application jar file will now be available under the build/libs directory.

## Deploy the Service Broker to Cloud Foundry

Push the service broker as an app to Cloud Foundry:
`cf push mongodb-service-broker -p build/libs/cloudfoundry-mongodb-service-broker.jar`

Get the default password from the application's logs:
`cf logs mongodb-service-broker --recent | grep default`

Register the service broker using the default username and the password obtained from the previous step:
`cf csb mongodb user password http://mongodb-service-broker.local.pcfdev.io`

Enable access to the service broker:
`cf enable-service-access "Mongo DB"`

Create a service instance:
`cf cs "Mongo DB"  "Default Mongo Plan" mymongodb`


## Deploy sample app which uses a MongoDB service instance

TODO

Commit message:

cleaned up the README; removed recommendation to use Docker container vs using a local instance of Mongo for dev purposes. Changed the name of the service definition to mongodb and the name of the service plan to 'default'.

README.md, after:

MongoDB Cloud Foundry Service Broker Example
=======================

Suggested setup for local development:

* [MongoDB instance](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/
* [PCFDev](https://network.pivotal.io/products/pcfdev)


## Enable Auth in your MongoDB instance

Add the Initial Admin User:
```
$ mongo
> db.createUser({ user: 'admin', pwd: 'password', roles: [{"role" : "readWriteAnyDatabase","db" : "admin"},{"role" : "userAdminAnyDatabase","db" : "admin"}] });
```

Update your mongod.conf file to enable auth. For example: https://gist.github.com/dave-malone/31e35b80004681b84755a6a9ba46c9ae

Restart your Mongo service. 

Test that authentication is working as expected: 

`mongo --authenticationDatabase "admin" -u "admin" -p "password"`

Refer to the MongoDB docs for more details: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/enable-authentication/

## Build the MongoDB Example Service Broker

```
git clone https://github.com/dave-malone/cloudfoundry-service-broker
cd cloudfoundry-service-broker
./gradlew assemble
```

## Deploy the Service Broker to Cloud Foundry

The service broker is configured via environment variables, which are defined in the manifest.yml file. Make the necessary changes to the MongoDB config in order to connect to your Mongo instance.


Push the service broker as an app to Cloud Foundry:
`cf push`

Register the service broker using the default username and the password obtained from the previous step:
`cf csb mongodb admin admin http://mongodb-service-broker.local.pcfdev.io`

Enable access to the service broker:
`cf enable-service-access mongodb`

Create a service instance:
`cf cs mongodb  "Default Mongo Plan" mymongodb`


## Deploy sample app which uses a MongoDB service instance

TODO
